CAELUM ARGENTEUM — FIRST PERSON v1
Hands and weapons. Target engine: GZDoom 4.14.2, Windows 11.

HISTORICAL RESOURCE-INTEGRATION GUIDE
The instructions and test statuses below describe the original art package.
The resources were subsequently integrated; see INTEGRACION_4_36_0c.txt.
For the current checkout, follow the root README.md and pending_test.txt.
Do not repeat these archived copy or rollback steps on the current checkout.

CONTENT AND STATUS
20 weapon families, each in T1, T2 and T3.
93 weapon/phase PNGs and 8 reusable hand PNGs: 101 runtime PNGs.
93 virtual hand + weapon compositions using TEXTURES.
Runtime canvas: 320×200 RGBA, uniform grAb offsets (160,32).
640×400 exports, cutouts, masters and prompts are in assets/first_person_v1.

This art package was prepared for integration into the project. The files were
exported and verified. Connecting selectors and testing within GZDoom were still
pending at delivery. Copying PNGs alone does not activate the new views.
There is no installer, and no complete existing code file is replaced.

GRIPS
- Melee, staff and statuette: closed right hand, as with the sword.
- Short and long bows: horizontal position; left hand at the bow's center and
  right hand on the string. Phases with an arrow, drawn, and without an arrow.
- Bell: horizontal right-hand grip; the bell hangs beneath the hand.
- Book: right palm underneath; the book is drawn above the entire hand.
  Both open and closed books are included.
- Carbine: two hands, stock nearby and barrel toward the upper center, with the
  requested frontal framing. Original wood-and-steel design.
- Crossbow: two hands and a view from behind the stock.
- Giant gauntlets: guard and left/right punches. These drawings already include
  fists; do not add another hand over them.

STEP 1 — COPY RESOURCES
1. Close the game and keep a backup of the current project.
2. Copy the contents of src/ into the project's src/. This adds:
   sprites/caelum/first_person/v1/
3. Copy assets/ into the project to preserve editable materials and this guide.
   Masters and PREVIAS are not packaged in the playable PK3.
4. Append the contents of:
   assets/first_person_v1/integration/TEXTURES_FP_V1.txt
   to the END of the existing TEXTURES. Do not replace the entire file.

STEP 2 — CONNECT EACH WEAPON'S REAL SELECTOR
Integrate with the selectors already used by Inventory, preserving the existing
damage, blocking, ammunition and resource-cost paths.

For each weapon/tier/phase, the CSV catalog and JSON manifest specify the weapon
sprite, complete composition, layer order, state label, rotation point and pivots
calculated from visible bounds.

Example: T1 dagger at rest.
- Weapon alone: F011A0.
- Hand: FH00A0.
- Composition: C011A0.
- Example state: CA_FP1_dagger_T1_A.

ESTADOS_FP_V1.inc contains the 93 composition states. It is a FRAGMENT for the
States block of the view-controlling class; do not include it directly in the
root ZSCRIPT as though it were a complete class. Copy only the labels required
by each selector. Appending states helps preserve existing indexes; then check
saved games.

Example of displaying the composition on a dedicated weapon layer:

    A_Overlay(50, "CA_FP1_dagger_T1_A", true);
    A_OverlayOffset(50, 160.0, 32.0);

The example's layer 50 must remain reserved for this view. Clear it when
unequipping, hiding the weapon or leaving the selector:

    A_ClearOverlays(50, 50);

Choose the label using HUDActiveWeaponType and HUDActiveWeaponTier from the
current source. Choose the phase from the actual attack, charge or reload state,
not from an independent timer that simulates firing without ammunition.

Do not draw the provisional HUD icon and new view simultaneously. The current
sword uses its own rig; do not duplicate it with a new composition. This package
does not overwrite DSWD, RHND, RFNG, DSHD or LHND. The new swords in all three
tiers remain available as resources; retain the approved sword view until those
variants are explicitly integrated.

STEP 3 — MOVE HAND AND WEAPON TOGETHER
The C... compositions allow the entire grip to move as one image. If separate
layers are used, apply the same translation and angular variation to every grip
layer. Respect back_hands → weapon → front_hands. For the book, the palm goes
behind the object; for a closed fist, in front.

With PSPF_PIVOTPERCENT, GZDoom uses each texture's visible bounds. Do not copy
the same percentage to images with different bounds: use the manifest pivots.
All resolve to the same pivot_320 for each composition.

The accepted melee motion can be retained as a variation from rest; the new
sprites are already drawn in their resting pose. Do not add the old DSWD's
absolute 18° angle again.

Tic:        1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8
Delta X:   +18     +36      +5     -46     -81     -54     -27      -7
Delta Y:   -17     -36     -33     -21     -11      -7      -4      -1
Rotation:   3°      6°     13°     20°     25°     21°     13°      6°
At completion: delta X/Y = 0, relative rotation = 0°.

These offsets describe the reference visual path. Callbacks and actual weapon
durations remain in the current code. The viewer plays the motion slowly only
to inspect the grip.

SPECIAL PHASES
Bows: A with arrow, B drawn, C after release/without arrow.
Crossbow: A loaded, B fired/empty, C reloading.
Carbine: A ready, B firing/recoil, C open chamber during reload.
Book: A open, B closed.
Gauntlets: A guard, B right punch, C left punch.
Others: A is the base drawing transformed by the rig for equip/attack/return.

Keep the existing shield and blocking conditions. Two-handed sets must not show
a third hand from the old shield. Changing the grip does not enable blocking or
alter the dodge of the two-handed sword/large weapons. When switching families,
clear every layer from the previous family before displaying the new layers.
Also check broken weapons, death, rest and map changes.

STEP 4 — REBUILD
Rebuild the PK3 with run_dev.bat or build_dev.ps1, as in the project.
Do not load two complete copies of the game. In SLADE, retain RGBA PNGs and the
supplied offsets; do not use the Doom palette or monster offsets. Do not copy
640×400 PNGs over 320×200 ones without adapting their scale and offsets.

OUTSIDE-ENGINE REVIEW — PERFORMED
- Counted and opened all 101 PNGs; checked alpha channels and dimensions.
- Checked grAb offsets, unique names and presence of all layers and tiers.
- Checked references for the 93 compositions and absence of collisions with TEXTURES 0q.
- Visually reviewed grips on contrasting backgrounds and special phases.
- Checked ZIP integrity and the viewer's JavaScript syntax.
Detailed result: VALIDACION.json.

GZDOOM TESTS — PENDING AT ORIGINAL DELIVERY
1. MAP01: equip each family in T1/T2/T3 from the real inventory.
2. Test 4:3 and 16:9: hands join the lower edge, the center of view remains usable
   and tips are complete. Long shafts may extend below the frame.
3. Alternate melee, bow, book and carbine: no duplicate hands or icons.
4. Attack and return to rest: the handle stays fixed inside the fist during rotation.
5. Draw/release both bows; load/fire/reload the crossbow and carbine.
   Without ammunition, a confirmed firing sequence must not be shown.
6. Book: the entire hand remains underneath, whether open or closed. Bell: check
   the ring opening and ribbon separation. Staff: hand around the shaft.
7. Shield equipped/unequipped/broken; held block and return to rest.
8. MAP02: repeated combat. Verify that damage, Air, Anima, cadence, ammunition
   and durability equal the previous version: the art does not change these values.
9. Save/load, die/respawn and change maps with different weapons.

ROLLBACK — ORIGINAL PACKAGE PROCEDURE
Restore the previous code's state/layer links and remove the added TEXTURES
fragment. Files belonging to the v1 folder may be removed; the previous sprites
and rig retain their original names. This historical procedure does not authorize
deleting files from the current checkout.
